# JQueryKeyboard.js
Example implementation of a Keyboard.js using JQuery. This was from 2016 when JQuery's rule was at an end and React and Angular were taking over.

Keyboard shortcuts have been a staple of technology since the GUI first appeared. They empower users who are familiar with the software tools they are using and ensure that there are multiple ways of achieving the same goal and given the keyboards availability compared to a menu item which requires mouse movements and clicks to attain; a "shortcut" to access.

Keyboard events in the browser are an interesting beast because of the way that events are handled in general. Simply put, an event occurs on the element that is "focussed" and then propagates out to the element that contains that and then the element that contains that one and so forth.

JQuery era JS was all about manipulating the DOM directly and often people preferred to register keyboard shortcuts to the document as all events would eventually reach it. However as applications became more complex, it was clear that this wouldn't work because the encapsulating closure where the event handler function was contained might have dropped off the document so there would need to be a constructor and destroy process for elements which were added and then removed to ensure events were cleaned up - hence my clumsy use of register and deRegister. JQuery therefore added the namespace as a way of figuring out where an event happened and allowing the developer to match against certain elements. Due to how JQuery worked and the unique classnames that were always required for manipulation, it was then a case of concatenating things together to build a unique key in the namespace for your widget and ensure that when registering there wasn't already something using the same shortcut.

This keyboard.js is a solution I devised to allow a developer to easily add and remove a keyboard shortcut handler with mildly abstracted special keys (CTRL / COMMAND (mac), ALT, META (win key)) to make combos used as clear as possible for the developer. This also ensured that there couldn't be overlap on a page as you loaded in your many widgets because once it was registered, it would only handle one at a time. Obviously, it's long defunct now but it's an important record for myself to remember how things have changed.

Modern approaches to construction using React, Angular and Vue have radically changed this whole paradigm which means that events and keyboard interactions are better able to be handled by specific components which keeps things wrapped together in a more developer friendly package. However it has a similar issue where keyboard controls are often missed because the mouse and touchscreen are the more "expected" approach and registering such an event is hard to do within the single component paradigm. Building an enterprise application with keyboard controls is not rare but often they are only available in certain paradigms within the application and are sadly often inconsistent or just missing in others. The uptick in gamers since ~2008 when nerd culture and video games became cool and your average software user was much more likely to have a grasp of interactions beyond their index finger means that we are increasingly seeing users who are technically competent and craving for better interaction options.


-- Jethro --
